30-Mar-2015

Andrew Berdahl from the Santa Fe Institute heard about our work through Craig and is interested in using our data to study 

wildebeest migrations. I am sending him environmental data (rainfall, NDVI, etc) and have extracted wildebeest movement data from 

our snapshot dataset. I am having undergraduate students go through wildebeest pictures to get the direction animals are moving.


On Wed, Mar 25, 2015 at 10:02 PM, Andrew Berdahl <berdahl@gmail.com> wrote:
Hello Ali and Meredith,

How do you do?

My name is Andrew Berdahl and I am an Omidyar Fellow at the Santa Fe Institute. I mainly study collective behavior, especially 

during migration and other navigational tasks but I am very interested in movement ecology in general (and other stuff too!). I 

recently had an interesting conversation with Craig Packer while he was visiting SFI about wildebeest movement up environmental 

gradients (grass greens, humidity, etc.) and the potential role of social cues in these processes. Craig suggested your 

Zooniverse project, Snapshot Serengeti might hold some interesting data for digging into these questions a little deeper. 

Specifically, he suggested that if you were able to query the database for all images containing wildebeests moving, then someone 

(undergrads?) might be able to extract a coarse estimate of which direction they were heading. We could then correlate that with 

NVDI, remote sensing weather data, or weather station data to look at what cues the animals might be using and over what scales 

they (individually, or as a group) could sense them. If you are at all interested in this angle, I might have some undergrads 

available over the summer to look through such images - though Craig mentioned you might have some already working with the 

images, so perhaps they would be more suitable.

No pressure at all, but if you find this interesting I would be happy to discuss it more.

All the best,
Andrew

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

On Thu, Mar 26, 2015 at 7:40 AM, Meredith Palmer <palme516@umn.edu> wrote:
Hi Andrew, 

Nice to meet you! Craig told us to expect an email from you. I'd be happy to help out in any way I can. It would be fairly easy 

to compile the information that you're interested in - I could send you a list of URLs for moving wildebeest pictures, monthly 

NDVI for 2010-2014, rain gauge data, and an updated list of what direction each camera is facing. I also have a small hoard of 

undergraduate volunteers (10-12) that I need to keep busy, so if you would like help extracting movement direction, I could have 

people looking at that immediately. Let me know if this sounds good, and we can chat further. 

Cheers, 
Meredith 
